# Wave-analyzer

-> INTRODUCTION
This project is a wave analyser which reads audio input from a microphone and outputs both numerical and graphical data about the captured sound waves. It has the following functions.

1) Waveform visualization
2) Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) spectrum analysis
3) Spectrogram generation (Short-Time Fourier Transform)

-> main.py
    This is the entry point of the software, it handles user interaction and program flow.
-> recorder.py
    This module is responsible for aduio capturing using PyAudio, it converts the sound from the computer's microphone to 44.1 kHz mono .WAV files, stored in the outputs directory.
-> analysis.py
    Performs signal processing operations, such as:
                                                   1) Signal normalization to {-1 , 1}
                                                   2) FFT computation using NumPy
                                                   3) Frequency spectrum magnitude extraction
                                                   4) Spectrogram generation via STFT (Sort Time Fourier  Transformation)
                                                   5) Time-domain waveform plotting

-> INSTRUCTIONS
1) Download or clone all project files.
2) Place them in the same directory.
3) Install required dependencies.
4) Run main.py

-> Possible future updates 

1) Real-time streaming mode
2) Adjustable FFT window selection
3) Peak frequency and amplitude detection
4) Export of numerical results (CSV)
5) Multi-sample comparison mode
6) Graphical User Interface (GUI)
7) Multiple filetype support
                                       * Note: the software is equipped to handle any mono or stereo .wav files of 8, 16, or 32 bit sample width that it finds in the outputs directory. Therefore, while not implemented in the menu, it is possible to manually upload .wav files not generated by the program into the outputs directory for analysis.
